Do you set resolutions each year or
perhaps goals that you hope to achieve?
Do any of those have to do with public
speaking? I recently put out a video on
my YouTube channel talking about how I
think in 2026 public speaking is going
to be one of the most important skill
sets when it comes to professional
success. And in this video, I'm going to
talk about seven ways you can practice
public speaking to take your skill set
to the next level. The first way you can
practice public speaking is Toast
Masters. I've talked a lot about Toast
Masters on my channel over the years,
and I put out videos on how you can do
certain roles really effectively, but if
you haven't yet tried out Toast Masters,
it is the best way to improve your
public speaking skills. And what I love
about Toast Masters is it's an
international program. There are
Toastmasters clubs everywhere throughout
the world. And even if you don't have a
Toastmasters club in your location,
there is probably a virtual club you can
join. This idea of getting the reps in
consistently with Toast Masters and
practicing week after week, that is
what's going to help you improve your
public speaking skills. I often think of
Toast Masters as like going to a gym.
Some people say, "Oh yeah, I went to
Toast Masters 10 years ago." That's like
saying, "I worked out 10 years ago." We
know that if you don't continue the
habit, the muscles and your cardio,
they're going to go downhill pretty
quickly. And the same for speaking
skills. I truly believe when it comes to
public speaking, this is something you
have to work on on a regular basis. and
Toast Masters is the best way to do
that. Are you waiting for someone to
give you the opportunity to deliver a
speech? The second way you can practice
is by not waiting for someone to ask you
for starting to work on a speech right
now. A story I want to tell is when I
was in 11th grade in my English class, I
had a teacher who one day for the
assignment came around and handed each
person a blank sheet of paper. And then
he gave the assignment. And the
assignment was simple. Write whatever
you want on that piece of paper. And
some students looked confused. They
couldn't believe their luck. Some people
literally wrote one word on the piece of
paper and handed it in because that
technically was fulfilling the
assignment.
But for me, I took that piece of paper
home and I spent more time on a project
than I ever had at that point in my high
school journey. And I wrote the best
thing I had ever written. You see, what
my teacher did was give me permission to
be creative. And that's what I want to
give all of you right now. Don't wait
for someone to ask you to give a speech.
Start preparing a speech. There's a few
examples. Perhaps in your job, there is
something that you have an idea about or
that you could teach your colleagues, an
area that you really shine. Work on a
speech for that. If you have a friend's
wedding coming up, I don't care if
you're not in the wedding party. What
could be a potential speech you could
share? You may not get the opportunity
to do so, but it will be a good process
having the chance to build out a speech.
And you never know, some weddings will
open up a microphone and invite people
to give a speech. And here you will be
with a prepared speech. So, always have
a speech that you're working on. That is
my second tip for how you can practice.
The third way you can improve your
public speaking is by eliminating filler
words. Now, what are filler words? You
might be wondering. They are all of
these words or sounds like um uh and so
but things that we inject in between
sentences that don't add any quality to
what we're saying. And the reason we do
this is because it can feel
uncomfortable at times to simply allow
silence to linger in between sentences.
But what we need to realize is that it's
not distracting for the audience. It's
actually kind of nice when there's that
pause between sentences.
Eliminating those filler words is going
to be one of the best ways you can
quickly level up as a speaker. And so,
the first trick is to learn what your
filler words are. You can try recording
yourself and watching back video. If you
give a speech, ask people to tell you
afterward what filler words you used.
Toast Masters helps with this as well.
Eliminating those filler words is one of
the best ways you can practice improving
your public speaking skills. The fourth
way you can improve is give yourself a
challenge with regard to public
speaking. And I was blown away on Tik
Tok. I saw that many people had been
participating in a 100 day speaking
challenge. So people who weren't
comfortable with video content
challenged themselves to shoot 100
videos like 100 days in a row back to
back to back video content. And I was
blown away by how quickly people leveled
up their skills and the the crazy
difference between day one and day 100.
And so I give yourself a threemonth
challenge. Can you for a full quarter
practice video content every single day
and aim to post that video? Share
something so you're actually putting it
out there on a social media platform of
your choice. And don't limit it to
stories. I want you to actually post
this out on your accounts. But challenge
yourself to do a video every day for 3
months. And I promise you, you will see
your skills improve and your comfort
with public speaking when it comes to
the camera. The fifth way you can
improve public speaking once again has
to do with the idea of videoing
yourself, but I want you to watch it
back in a couple of different ways. So
when you record a video of yourself
presenting the first time, watch it
without any sound on. I want you to see
what your body language is doing. Do you
have any tendencies? Right now, for
example, I keep putting my hands in my
pocket. That's cuz I'm very cold. But
are you doing something like that? Do
you have your hands behind your back? Do
you sway back and forth? Do you have a
nervous energy about you? This will
allow you to focus purely on the body
language by watching without sound. And
then the second time, put the phone away
and simply turn up the volume and play
the speech again. This time, you're not
watching yourself, you're just
listening. And this is where you're
going to hear some of those filler words
or areas where maybe your voice doesn't
sound as confident or you go on a little
bit of a ramble, but you can focus on
the audio side of things. And then the
final time, watch it regularly, just
like you would watch a normal video,
seeing the body language, the sound,
everything put together. I think by
isolating body language and your vocal
variety, it's going to give you a really
good sense of where you can be
improving. The next goal you can set for
yourself when it comes to public
speaking is to educate yourself. There
are a few really great individuals who I
suggest you follow. The first is Vanessa
Van Edwards. She is an expert when it
comes to communication skills. She has
so many great ideas and she will really
help you dial in your public speaking
skills. Another individual is Viniang.
He's especially great when it comes to
vocal variety and again millions of
followers. He is an expert in the
communication space and my YouTube
channel, especially if you're in Toast
Masters. Regardless, I really aim to
help make you a more confident public
speaker. And the final way you can
improve your public speaking skills this
year is accelerate them. I personally
offer an accelerator course that runs
over three weeks. My winter edition is
taking place in mid January,
but I tend to do these quarterly. So, if
you are ever interested in joining one
of my accelerators, it's not cheap. I
have a lot of free content on social
media and my YouTube channel. The
accelerator is $500 Canadian, but
perhaps that is something you're
interested in, and that is one of the
quickest ways to level up your speaking
skills. I hope this video has brought
you value. Earlier, I mentioned I did a
2026 predictions video that is popping
up right now. If you haven't already,
please subscribe to my channel. I aim to
do a lot more content like this
throughout the